# vim-nuxtex

LaTeX quickfix and SyncTeX plugin for Vim/Neovim on Linux

# Introduction

vim-nuxtex is a (La)TeX editting support plugin for Vim and Neovim. This plugin supports quickfix function and SyncTeX. The quickfix feature is similar as tex.vim, but it is much better especially in reduce unnecessary messages.
The SyncTeX function supports GNOME Document Viewer(Evince), Atril, Xreader and Zathura. Both forward and backward search are supported. It is not necessarry to complex configuration for these pdf viewers to work backward search function.
This plugin also supports multiple source project like using `\input` command.

# Quick reference
## Compile LaTeX document

The following is how to compile LaTeX document using vim-nuxtex quickfix feature.
It will be described as compiling `/path/to/foo.tex`

### Create Makefile

First, create `Makefile` as below.

```Makefile
	DIR = ./
	DVI = $(DIR)foo.dvi
	PDF = $(DIR)foo.pdf
	
	$(PDF):    $(DVI)
		dvipdfmx -o $(PDF) $<
	
	$(DVI):    foo.tex
		latex -synctex=1 -output-directory=$(DIR) $<
	
	clean:; latexmk -C --outdir=$(DIR) 
```

Then, put it same directory of `/path/to/foo.tex`
If you prefer another compiler to `latex`, you can replace the command.

### Set up compiler

If the `Makefile` setting up is completed at the previous section, then start the compiler plugin feature. Open vim in the same directory of foo.tex(`/path/to/`) and execute the below commands.

```vim
    " Select the compiler plugin as vim-nuxtex.
    :compiler nuxtex
    " Select compiler shell command as make.
    :set makeprg=make
```

Finally, execute `:make` command. `foo.tex` will be compiled or if the document have some errors, the error messages will be stored in the quickfix list. It is possible to check the list by `:copen` command.
If you would like to check the error log later, you can do that by below commands.

```vim
    " Select the compiler plugin as vim-nuxtex.
    :compiler nuxtex
    " Load error message log for foo.tex
    :cfile foo.log
    " Open the quickfix list
    :copen
```

In short, the compilation commands are based on the default vim manipulation methods.

## SyncTeX

In this section, it is described how to execute forward and backward search feature.
First, choose a pdf viewer for checking the products genereted from (La)TeX documents. It is possible to set `g:nuxtex_viewer_type`. The value can be choosed from 'evince', 'atril', 'xreader' and 'zathura'. If you would like to choose GNOME Document Viewer(Evince), the configuration is like below.

```vim
    let g:nuxtex_viewer_type = 'evince'
```

If the variable was not set, vim-nuxtex will try to use 'evince'.
Once the viewer set up completed, open the compiled (La)TeX document and move the cursor to the position you would like to watch in the pdf. Then execute `<localleader><localleader>nf` in normal mode. The pdf viewer will open and highlight the target position. This is the forward search feature.
If you would like to jump from pdf to (La)TeX source, do Ctrl-Left Click on the pdf viewer. vim-nuxtex will move the cursor to the target position. This is the backward search feature. This feature is only works for (La)TeX source which is stored in the buffer. The backward search feature is activated when the forward search command is executed.

### Trouble shooting

If it does not work forward search, check execution shell command generated by this plugin. It is possible by executing `:NuxtexChkFwdCmd` on (La)TeX document window.

# Lincence

vim-nuxtex is MIT licenced. you can copy, redistribute and modify freely.

